how's it going guys done about here Tim
bringing you a discussion on infinite
worlds and biomes in 0.9 point zero and
this is going to be centered around
jungle biomes but um anyway this is all
coming from Tomas was reddit feed and
the first topic is about on johan
stating that there's going to be new
biomes in the 0.9 update and this guy
was asking what everybody thinks about
and one guy over here says just guessing
but it's probably going to be like all
the original biomes except for jungles
and he says that while we may see
jungles there are apparently like a lot
of hardware problems with them and
pretty much anything that would be like
normal biomes like the plains the
extreme Hills Tyga deserts and forests
are all going to be available and Tom
responses saying exactly we're going to
see most of the new biomes excluding
jungles and roof forests because there's
a problem with transparency and
basically any block that's transparency
in it like leaves jungles have a lot of
leaves and we use our transparent blocks
and they cause a lot of lag and the more
leaves there are the lag year the game
is so pretty much they aren't going to
be able to do jungle biomes because of
the high density of leaves and he says
pretty much you can see all new biomes
with the exception of jungles and roof
force because of that leaf problem also
the world height is going to stay at 128
blocks I'm assuming it's because they
don't want any more blocks in generating
than there already are and not only that
but um population is still supported by
slower devices so on with more blocks
generating it's just going to cause more
lag and they don't want to create that
problem but generally tom says that they
have no problem incorporating all of the
other biomes so that means we are going
to see pretty much every single new
biome from 1.7 excluding the amplified
and jungle biomes the this next question
says on this may be a dumb question but
what new biomes
do what do the new biomes you save
world's would biomes just integrate into
the worlds or would you have to start a
completely new one and start all over
again if you wanted these new biomes and
tom says that he thinks that the old
worlds are going to continue to use the
old generator um they're just going to
continue to expand infinitely if you
want that option and you're going to
have to create a new world if you want
those new terrain generation options so
if say I want to continue expanding my
let's play world arm it wouldn't have
any of the new bios because it uses the
old generator he also says that um
that's what he has working in the
developer version of pocket edition so
pretty much old worlds use the old
terrain generation program and old
worlds you're going to be able to like
toggle whether you want it to generate
infinitely or not and they're still
deciding on where they should ask this
and how it should be set up but pretty
much you're going to have the option of
whether you want your old world to
expand infinitely and continue using the
new generator the old generator or if
you just want to keep it the same size
so this next reddit post is kind of like
a complaint form and somebody made a
post saying that the only thing that you
is really looking forward to in 0.9
point zero was the jungle biomes and why
can't they add them and Tom pretty much
explains it again how there's a problem
or the only problem with jungles is the
fact that there's the transparent leaves
and jungles don't run very well on any
device unless its cutting-edge and he
says that they could offer a switch to
allow jungles and roof for us to
generate in 0.9 point 0 worlds however
how is this going to work when you join
realms because a realm is like a shared
server and not everybody who plays on
realms has a cutting-edge device so um
if some people have that tumbled on some
people have it toggled off it'll create
problems so they're mainly leaving it
out because on they just want everybody
to be able to have the same
gameplay experience and that toggle
switch is something that they consider
but it would cause problems for servers
he also says that they could add an
option to make jungle trees by default
have non fancy graphics like having a
separate option for trees and fancy
trees lag many people so why not have a
non fancy graphics like default for
trees and Tom pretty much says that they
don't want to force bad graphics on
everybody but they might as well just
make jungle leave non-transparent even
on fancy and it might work might not and
they're still looking into what they
should do to wrap up this news video and
discussion about biomes jungle biomes
and infinite worlds tom says that there
is going to be something exclusive and
one is going to make the world to end a
bit more awesome so I'm thinking that if
you don't have the infinite worlds
option toggled there's going they're
going to make the world like finish off
some sort of epic way and there's going
to be two exclusive and awesome things
ones already in PC minecraft the other
is going to be really cool and it will
all make sense later so he's being
really vague about these exclusive
features and hopefully he'll shed some
light on that in the future but as for
now we don't know what they are all we
do know is that will pretty much
anything that I discussed on old worlds
like 0.8 point 0 and prior will use the
old terrain generation and you can
toggle whether you want it to expand
infinitely or if you want to keep it the
same size the same thing applies for 0.9
point 0 worlds but they will use the new
terrain generator and they will also
include every new biome with the
exception of jungle leave with the
exception of jungles roof forests and
amplified biomes also they're thinking
how they can implement jungle biomes
without literally ruining the game for
everybody
there's also going to be exclusive
features but we don't know what those
are going to be anyway this is the end
of the update video it's rather along it
was discussion about infinite worlds and
biomes which is always going to be long
but it's really rather informative and I
hope you guys liked it anyway thanks for
watching if you found it helpful leave a
like leave a favorite subscribe more
pocket ish and content and news follow
me on Twitter at Thunder bow 98 for
channel updates and I will see you guys
in the next video take it easy
you